>> Speaker 1: Our first solution is
just producing these objects that
are the perfect representation
in our application of our data
with the associated functionality.
Put that process of
creation in a function.
Create an object.
See the code to add the properties,
add the function, and
then return that object out into User1.
We're gonna end up with
exactly the same situation as
we had when we hand crafted these objects.
But now, we're doing it in a single line.
Create user object into User1 with
fill and for as the properties.
User a two with property.
And in both cases,
a copy of our increment function on User1.
A copy of our increment function on User2.
Already, you might spot that there might
be some issues with this approach.
There might be some challenges.
And so, at this point,
we are going to start
our generation of objects,
but now with a function.
This approach, folks,
easy to reason about.
But hard to add features we're gonna see,
and fundamentally untenable
in terms of whether it's going to
be performant in terms of memory.
>> Speaker 1: Let's start off
by declaring our function here.
Declare the function.
That means save in memory
the function user creator.
Storing the code in the function.
Perfect.
Next line, Chris.
>> Chris: We're declaring
a constant new user as the object.
>> Speaker 1: So you were right
to just say we don't run any of
the code in user creator until we do what?
>> Chris: You call them.
>> Speaker 1: We call it.
So we grab all of that code and
we're gonna represent,
I'm not gonna write out the code, but
think of it all being in here basically.
>> Speaker 1: So what actually, Chris,
if not the body of the function,
is the next line of code that
JavaScript executes or does?
>> Chris: Creating a new user,
or new constant User1?
>> Speaker 1: Perfect, he's spot on.
User1, there it is.
User1.
And do we know where to store User1 yet?
>> Speaker 3: The return of user/creator.
>> Speaker 1: Fantastic,
the return value of calling user creator.
So User1 is, now const doesn't assign and
define to USer1.
It's an unmutatable label.
You can't change the data, and so
it actually remains uninitialized until we
go and get the return value from
calling User created spawn.
So I'm just gonna leave it blank
because it's uninitialized.
Actually, it's not even declared,
but we'll just leave it there for
now while we go off and call user creator.
User1 is going to be
the return value of calling
user creator with the input of fill and
four.
And folk, I'm gonna represent whenever you
start running a function in JavaScript.
As I say, you need what's
called an execution context.
Context means space to do something.
This is the space in which to execute,
to run, that function's code.
It comprises the thread of execution,
which means we are no longer
running code outside that function.
We're just running that
function's code line by line,
threading its way through and
executing line by line.
And a little mini-memory to save
any of the stuff that gets declared
inside that function.
I'm gonna represent it with this box here.
Think of it as a frame in other languages,
or similar.
Into it we go.
And it's got a memory.
I'm gonna call it the local memory because
it's only available inside this function.
Anything return out this function will be
deleted, cuz it's local to this function.
That just means we're inside the function.
Inside the function execution context.
In this local memory,
the first thing we put in, Seth, are what?
>> Seth: Declaring the constant and
the user.
>> Speaker 1: That's the second thing,
man.
What's the very first thing we handle?
>> Seth: The two parameters.
>> Speaker 1: The parameters, exactly.
So name is assigned what value?
>> Seth: Fill.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, not Will.
[LAUGH] Recently became
less self-centered.
>> Seth: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 1: And
changed it from Will to fill.
And score is?
>> Seth: Four.
>> Speaker 1: Four, perfect.
New user is then a big old empty object.
And let's now populate its properties.
And folk, this may feel procedural
right now It's gonna get
profoundly more complex as we go, but
we'll have the foundations down to do so.
Nick, throw out the properties for me.
>> Nick: First is the name.
Name gets assigned.
And then, score.
>> Speaker 1: So let's be as clear
as possible, if we can, Nick.
So we assign, we are dynamically assigning
a name property to the newUser constant,
or newUser object, and
it's gonna have what value?
>> Nick: The name,
a key will have the value of fill.
>> Speaker 1: Which is our?
>> Nick: String.
>> Nick: Argument.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, argument.
So parameter, name is the parameter.
The argument is the one we pass in.
So the argument fill is passed in.
Perfect.
There it is.
And then,
next according to the same pattern.
Chris, go ahead.
>> Chris: It's the score argument.
>> Speaker 1: Score argument.
Which is?
>> Chris: Four.
>> Speaker 1: Four is assigned to?
>> Chris: The score.
>> Speaker 1: To the score?
>> Chris: Property.
>> Speaker 1: Property, perfect.
And then, finally, Michael,
what do we add to this object?
>> Nick: Another property
called increment.
>> Speaker 1: Increment.
>> Nick: That's declared as a function.
>> Speaker 1: Beautiful.
Which is on an object known
as a method in JavaScript.
Okay, there's our perfect object.
It's our dream object.
It has everything we need on it.
All the data representing this using,
yes, we've simplified it.
It's not 50 properties.
And it's got the functionality.
Normally, there would be 50 functions,
100 functions.
But it's got the functionality we
need all bundled on the object.
But where is it?
It's inside the execution context.
So what do we need to do?
Was it David?
David, what do we need to
do to get this object out?
>> Speaker 7: We need to return it.
>> Speaker 1: Return it, perfect.
Return it into what global constant?
>> User1
>> Speaker 1: User1.
Perfect, there it is.
Score four, and increment is a function.
>> Speaker 1: Beautiful.
Folk,
this has produced an object
just like we did manually.
We're not gonna go through
calling the function again.
But I'm gonna walk through it
quickly to produce another object so
we can see whether our dream is possible.
Are we able to call increment to
the right-hand side of the dot?
We hope so.
All right, Michael,
talk me through the next line.
We're back in the global
execution context.
We're back into the global,
they call it the global execution context.
What is the next line of code say to do,
Michael?
>> Michael: Create another
user called User2.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, or
just another object.
User2, which is gonna be the return value.
Sorry object,
another constant would use a two,
is going to be the return
value of calling.
>> Speaker 9: User creator.
>> Speaker 1: User creator.
Okay, so
we're not gonna walk through this
execution context In detail.
So with Julia.
>> Speaker 1: And five.
We're not gonna walk through this
execution context in detail.
But we know it's going to turn out a brand
new object with name Julia, score five.
And a brand new copy of that increment
functionality that was saved.
That means it's literally saved
in the computer's memory,
and we're gonna do the same thing.
We're gonna declare a brand
new increment function and
save it on that object
before we return it out.
>> Speaker 1: And there it is, the brand
new increment method on that object.
But now, we do our check.
David, let's do our check together.
David, can I do my dream?
All I want in my basics of
object-oriented programming
is that my functionality is
available right there on my data.
David, can I do that?
Can I refer to my functionality
to the right-hand side
of the dot and hope it works?
Walk me through the look up
process of JavaScript here, David.
So we have User1.
Where do we look for it?
>> Speaker 10: In the global memory.
>> Speaker 1: In global memory.
Do we find it?
>> Speaker 10: Yes.
>> Speaker 1: We do?
>> Speaker 1: And then, what are we
looking for on it?
>> Speaker 10: The increment function.
>> Speaker 1: Do we find it?
>> Speaker 10: Yes.
>> Speaker 1: Beautiful, we do.
We can grab its code and
we can execute it.
Folk, it may seem trivial, but
this is all we really wanna do.
This is all we fundamentally want to do.
But who can tell me, fast, so we can
move on from this terrible approach.
Chris, what makes this approach untenable?
Can you tell me?
What makes this approach such that
we could never in practice do this?
>> Speaker 11: You gotta
call it on every user?
>> Speaker 1: You got, say that again?
>> Speaker 11: Call it on every
user that you wanna create?
>> Speaker 1: Not so
much call it on every user.
Raise hand if you got an idea.
Yes, Seth, go ahead.
>> Seth: The increment method is
stored individually on each object.
>> Speaker 1: Exactly.
We're doing copies of identical
function on every single object.
Now, why not?
I mean, that's kind of what we want.
We wanna be able to refer to that
function to be used on that object.
I wanna be able to do not
just user1.increment,
but also user2.increment.
I wanna be able to call
increment on User2.
So I need it to be on User2.
But this would be
an impossible language design
if we had this as the only way of having
functions be available to an object.
That it had to be stored
directly on the object.
For now, we have one function.
But folk, imagine if we had 100,
200 functions,
all of which we want
users to have access to.
>> Speaker 1: Decrease score,
increase score, increment score.
Decrement score, display user,
add avatar, login user,
authenticate user, logout user.
All of these functions would need to
be available on every single user so
that we could do it to that user
as they play our quiz game.
So we could easily write code
that says where's the function?
Don't worry,
it's right there on the object.
>> Speaker 1: This approach
does serve our purpose.
>> Speaker 1: But
there must be another way.
Now, another language is we have
implementations that avoid all of this.
But JavaScript does not have object
oriented nature of other languages.
So who can intuitively tell me,
not in terms of OOP and
other language implementations, but
just what would be an intuitive way?
How many copies, David, do we really
want of the increment function?
>> Speaker 11: One.
>> Speaker 1: One.
>> Speaker 1: So our dream,
perhaps, would be to have one,
not have increment on User2, not have
it on User500, not have it one User1.
But instead, have it somewhere else.
And JavaScript's interpreter at
the moment at which it tries to make and
use increment, not find it on USer1,
but not panic.
And instead, go and
look in this other object
full of methods where it finds increment.
Perfect.